welcome everyone to this week's IP out
the sink meeting it's the first edition
of the specialty kids at home edition
and as every week we talk about the
stuff that we've done last week and that
we plan to do this week and any other
things we might want to talk about yeah
so let's see what's on the head end
player please put your name on the
attendees list or remove your name if
you're not there and because I place it
from past week cool yeah I haven't done
that much because I was last guess what
it was it a Geo conference in Germany
and but one one interesting item I might
have is that I was talking to someone
from the OpenStreetMap community and
there seemed to be some download issues
for their if you want to download the
whole dataset curly and they distributed
also curly with a BitTorrent I thought
well it's a purple use case for IPS and
then I figured out loading in 60
gigabytes is not that easy probably and
it's interesting that the way they do
the dumps it's not a good fit for ipfs
because it's probably with the current
chunking we have you end up with a lot
unique data so you don't have that good
deduplication so with a custom chunk or
it might be cool so if we would have a
custom chunker for the OpenStreetMap
data it might work very well and yeah
well that's I think it's a cool use case
and once we get into the custom chunking
this might be a good yeah good thing to
play with um yeah that's all I have
next on my list is raw what
anything empty report so I go on with
Eric all you will do still have some
time to make your thoughts a chaotic
week on planet Earth pushes blood actor
walk brought up some interesting
comments on that about how we want to
export the called nodes style it's
currently exported with some very funny
instructs we're debating doing some
weirder style of coding in order to make
it look nicer on the output feedback
welcome this everybody cares
otherwise I spend some time on a
sidequest looking at ipfs and how it
uses I peel D and trying to consider how
we can make those go more smoothly
together in the future and some probably
upcoming rewrites and I think most of
that isn't relevant to this meeting so
I'll just think that bad I don't have a
ton to say alright next on my list is
Michael hello let's go :
so oh yeah um still working on this big
data stuff um reach some really
interesting performance issues
particularly with dynamo that are like
blocking a lot of for progress and so it
made me real value 8 the entire approach
um to to an approach that would actually
avoid some of these large-scale Dynamo
issues it also let me to uncover a weird
corner of s3 performance where
apparently s3 performance will
bottleneck on a prix fixe so that's
where you'll find like the maximum read
and write capacity is it a perfect basis
so I figured out a way of doing block
storage where we just take the hash and
then make that the directory name and
make that slash in code and then all of
a sudden we get
like performance chardon we get maximal
performance for every single block which
is great oh and now my daughter is
typing and so using that now and
generally working on down a new approach
to this whole big data collection that
kind of refactor even the first day that
we were doing but overall is actually
it's going to be way faster and easier
so working on that also made a lot of
progress on dag DB this is surfacing
some really interesting new use cases
for car files where like it's sort of
using the car file like a git repo and
then every time that it does it
operation is just replacing the car file
with the new ones
and so the api's that we currently have
for manipulating car files are not super
well suited than this it's like a full
kind of rewrite of the entire graph
every time you manipulate it suddenly
not when anything was designed for so
far but sir business and interesting use
cases you might want to consider going
forward so I'll be exploring those a bit
more and then also like I'm starting to
build some of the indexing
infrastructure now and the lack of
multi-block sordid data structures that
we have in IPL D is is going to become
an issue so at some point we're gonna
have to return to those and put some
north on it because it's there's just a
lot of applications you can't build on
that Kildee right now without some good
work there it's time all of the project
leads is being asked to do so yeah so
all the projects are doing contingency
planning for commenting and so I'll be
putting on a plan you know if I have to
if I you know get pulled by my daughter
to go play videos for her or whatever
that the team doesn't have to stop doing
work and that everybody knows who to
contact so it'll probably just be a list
of the different areas of IPL D and who
to contact it won't be like Kira's who
is now the new me because I don't feel
like anyone right now it has enough
visibility really to that but there's
some really obvious points until in the
like poker on the rust off and Eric on
the go stuff it looks like that so
expect that plan probably today or
tomorrow and that's it for me
all right thank you next minute I have
Christian pet and questioner yeah you
were raising your hand well in terms of
the car stuff like it's exactly
interesting as like a data store
replacement yeah yeah no I mean it's
certainly not designed for that now but
it's interesting to think about what it
would take to do that and it overlaps
with some of the other stuff that we're
doing like and just recently we're
talking about how in order to do really
efficient pinning what we need to do is
keep around a rubber an index of all the
all the for each block what does it link
to and who links to it that we currently
have in the data store right like having
that index around but allow us to do
really associated garbage collection you
want to do something very similar with
car files where you want to have like
that that layer of an index so that when
you do the manipulation you can see
which blocks were orphaned and if those
were the only links to them and then and
then you can do a really efficient new
right of a car file without Rhian coding
if you just know all the block offsets
because then you can just go oh these
ones were or if than these ones were new
now right a new one from old data and
not be like a full real code flow graph
manipulation but the question is like do
we want to complicate this tale that
we've been talking about for an indexed
and not only include links out the links
back in and not just not just offsets or
do we want to have that be just a scan
of the entire thing and just requires an
upfront just so I'll be exploring this
with the current car format I'll
probably write a library at some point
to try to do this more efficiently and
then that'll surface any requirements
going forward for the next version that
the car format if we want to tackle this
use case in the car file format
mrs. missus you muted muted sorry I
thought it was work but like if you had
like some core format which is like
sounds like car but just like walk
format or like storing tags but very
flexible and then car is like a specific
version of that there's any concentrates
archives it has a specific form and
because of other things built on top of
the same underlying like walk store kind
of idea but yeah I didn't go we're
changing cars because carnism they'll be
like the content rest archive it's a big
event like to these other mutable data
structures all right I don't derail like
this meeting no I mean it's an
interesting territory I would say that
like we've been thinking for a while now
about what a storage API would look like
they did a better job of this and would
have information like do we store the
entire graph for this block or not right
like like giving us an index of all the
things that this links to and and the
link to it in the current storage system
right so like what are the the add-ons
that we need to do more efficient
operations and when I think about how to
port that to different storage backends
it's like I don't see a place for a
specific file format being helpful
because like if I'm doing an s3 what I'm
doing is I'm actually using like just
key only storage to store like little
index with these things and stuff like
that so yeah so there but it's worth
like thinking about what are all the
different layers here that we can build
and ways that we can leverage
[Music]
alright I'm next on my list is Chris hey
guys so I catch get stay with Michael
last week just to see how I could help
the project and basically decided to
focus on provide feedback from an app
developer point of view icon usability
of API is and and whatnot so I think is
any of you know I'm kind of working in
the medical imaging space building a
prototype so oh I provide a couple of
issues and dialogue being yes you may be
with Michael about some of those things
from my point of view but I am available
to help with other things he is anything
just feel free to ping me know do my
best to help closely relates to my
friends I'm doing a first step working
and you know one thing you know yeah so
getting some real world or first-hand
experience with it and at some point I'm
not sure the best way to engage Tesla
engage this team but would like to kind
of share a little bit about how that
works and get so maybe design feedback
in so maybe next week or can schedule a
separate meeting I'm not really sure if
and probably separate beings that way if
you don't want to come you don't have to
you know take up your time one thing is
is that I need some kind of way okay I
was originally thinking my a personal
project to use a centralized database to
point into you know IP fsip LD but then
you know the work that Michael did on
dad DB it kinda made me think you could
actually build a database on top of IP
LD and not have to have a separate
contra tional database and so ended up
looking to orbit the orbit DB and I'm
sure you guys have looked at it to you
but it's just kind of limited it's like
misty requires everything to be a memory
so it wouldn't be appropriate but I
think the work I really liked the idea
and Michael you start with Daddy be it
seems like it could you know
transition is something that could be
really cool you know in terms of just
this usually scalable database and
provide that kind of search capability
that is useful so you ask my update I
have a couple of questions at the end if
we have time that would mind thrown out
to the group to thanks
does anyone else have any update
Peter Oh Steven nothing for me at this
you're good because you're perfect
material is being released shortly if
you have any known issues that need to
get fixed please risa that doesn't
include that the import-export thing
didn't get merged it it probably will
include the import-export yes we will
make sure to put in data secretary close
I'll go as many I'll go and have a quick
review just to yeah okay the idea there
is like we we want to have that for the
PowerPoint launch and the next release
is coming out in six weeks
yeah I actually don't have the the main
key I don't go a BFS open yet I will add
us earlier we need to say okay yeah the
other I guess it's an update when we're
wanting to have a meeting some point
with fairly wide audience of well as
much as we can get about car use cases
car file use cases I said that does seem
to be the thing that we keep on coming
back to and we talk about features is
okay well when I want to use it for this
and of this feature and when I want to
use in this situation that feature hurts
it so it'll be good to get an idea of
the scope of what car is meant to be
what we intend car to be used for and
and then help that define the v2 feature
set because it's potentially wide open
and that's not the greatest thing so
we'll try to have a meeting I was hoping
this week we could pull something off
but I don't know if it could put me any
work into organizing that they'll try
and pull in some folks here and
elsewhere
cool and I forgot an update because I
was also at so the conference it was
also about geo standards and so there's
this okay Stennis organization called
OGC for do standards for open juste
enhance and there is an upcoming
standard which is kind of like the basis
for all the other upcoming statement so
they kind of replace their old our PC
like XML based thing with more like a
restful approach and JSON and everything
and currently the specs kind of like
hard code HTTP into the spec and I will
open an issue and have some support from
other folks that at least they say that
also other protocols are allowed and I
want to get this changing because the
problem is that I would expect the feed
the this new standard be like the cross
and for the next 10 15 years for all G
related things in like governments and
agencies and so on so at least opening
the door of having at least a way to
have a contra dressed system and a leave
or non HTTP protocols so I will open it
as well and and that chances are quite
good hopefully am to get this changing
but we'll see can you drop a link in the
notes a bit to that that since interest
yes yeah yeah yeah I will
yeah well one thing that we were talking
about actually and this is more for like
Stephen and Peter's benefit but their
use case is sort of interesting and that
they have like a custom file format they
just have a bunch of protocol buffers in
it okay like Michael is told you know
this the only opponent about the
OpenStreetMap thing yeah yeah but but
what it kind of surfaced is that like
even rabbit isn't gonna be very good
because there's some compressed data in
there that introduces noise and then the
fingerprint and what you actually want
is just a custom Tumkur and there's
probably a lot of like cases out there
where a custom chunker is actually what
you want to write then and use a lot of
the time and so just having ApS that
make it easier to provide a custom
chunker is probably going to be really
nice to have it is surprise
how many use kids I run into where it's
not like oh this this well-known file
format could benefit from another Joker
it's like oh no this person's crazy
use-case needs that one come here
actually go ahead Steven hey Disney
Peter solution will work pretty well
with minions cases like what if his a or
Essex is like fine no bite boundaries
it's just a really common thing where
you've had to like you haddock ordinals
in I don't know if this is this weird
file format will do that but like tars
do this pretty much everything yeah so
so that's one thing and another thing is
the the tool that I'm building which
will use actually care for us to
communicate streaming key with a go at
EFS the interfaces to write a chunker
well keeping called the other linkage
and stuff like this kinda invisible to
you is really small so writing a custom
chunker would be like 20 lines of code
ideally and everything else will be done
for you yeah yeah I mean like I I needed
it was effectively ended up being a
custom chunker for this big data work
and so I had to get that working on top
of JSF EFS and it was it was really hard
to do with the code the way that it was
in there and then it being from PRS but
now it's actually quite easy significant
easy to do this and so yeah some extent
it just like a tooling issue but um yeah
yeah I'll say so the noble thing
definitely would help I think with this
particular for a buff case but I look
lunch of other cases worried the moment
that you that you're compressing
anything and by cam using fresh
encourage broadly once you use some form
of compression you end up really
screwing up all the fingerprinting and
and it's just not useful anymore and
like the case that I've run into before
is actually a javascript minification
like you know they give it as
compression because you just spit out
like usable JavaScript at the end but it
turns out that like there's a level of
noise that that introduces the level of
like mutation that happens even on small
changes then just totally messes up
rather and without like tuning it down
to basically having the block Gunners be
smaller than the hash lines like you
don't really get a lot of need of the
data alright questions
yes so Chris well you actually related
to that is kind of binary data
management so in medical imaging the
bulk of the day that we're dealing are
is medical images and the can decompress
in different ways and I've actually
moved away from my campus files to store
it for a couple reasons but one was just
like we're saying we're not control over
the chunking and so I couldn't take
advantage of deduplication that I was
inherited so having control over where
my chunk file up would actually make
ipfs work much better for my use case
that's why I did is I've actually been
storing the binary data using the VIP LD
using the raw codec which you guys may
kind of shudder on but the reason I did
that was because of performance so it's
actually the fastest store and retrieved
from and that's actually one kind of
point of feedback is you know is that
really evil or is okay to do because
really it's just a piece of binary data
out there but the question I actually
have is it seems like there's a need or
that there could be a value and having
has separates schema specifically for
blobs and so we have UNIX fSV - which
takes you know it's kind of file rights
you know finally and you have
permissions you have some other things
but if you just want to store a blob you
know like my case I don't want to
actually store it as a file in CT I just
want a multi-block blob sequence it
seemeth gonna be a schema which was on
top of that they even maybe UNIX FSB -
could use I want to throw the idea out
and see what you guys thought yes
extremely yes completely it's a good
idea I wrote that
yeah it's called I believe that the
final name that we settled on after like
was flexible binary lists and so it's
just an arbitrary length binary and it
scales from anything - from an embedded
byte to like just one linked byte - like
nested so and the goal there is so that
like you don't tie the layout algorithm
to
the reed method so you can have a common
read and then figure out better layouts
in the future and everybody can still
read the old data still and so yeah I'm
actually my plan is to actually shoved
up some dag DB so dag DB has this way of
like you can take special objects and
then basically when you pass them on the
day to be as a value it'll create
another block and then link to it and so
that block is basically a signal to say
do something special with this so one of
the things that I'm gonna have in Dagny
B is you can pass it in a stream like
any stream or actually in a stick
generator that produces binary and it
will basically use that FTL code binary
less code to encode it as that and then
when you when you read it out of the
database you'll also get back a stream
object and like that's the underlying
data structure the law and a few things
so yeah I'll send you a link to the end
to the schema for it that's awesome
especially in quality here is or don't
know if I could actually contribute
something which you guys are ahead of me
here yeah I'll look at that because that
you know there's a lot of things you're
talking about there that I was like
Mattson yeah there's two ways to do it
okay so given that this here's one other
question
oh yes just real quick so maybe I
implemented would you did you like the
raw codec to store the binary chunks or
as you use like decks Tibor so the
schema isn't specific to a codec so you
can use deck JSON or decks Ybor out you
probably can't use the egg P because
it's not data model compatible but like
so basically I'm you can either embed
the binary in as a value or you can link
to the box so if it's really small you
can inline it basically so the idea is
that like you still have one data
structure and one read method we pass
around even if you just have them
embedded bytes so you don't have to do
that like Union
if def code like somewhere else but yeah
and then yeah administered Rob locks
like it just it uses raw blocks for all
of the underlying data it doesn't it
doesn't do that the old thing and egg PB
the be used to do where you like wrap
the binary and add egg could be known
every time because I've been to ask is
like just storing the rod chunks in raw
codec kosher man it sounds like it is a
reasonable in this case okay
that's the preferred method for sure
yeah one other quick question hopefully
this is fast oh so I've been via a graph
sync and I'm just tryna share from a
scope is intended to replace a bit swap
some day I was like one question it was
a separate thing well it's it's just not
it's not gonna be good at some things
and it's gonna be way better at some
things so like if you had a lot of peers
with the data and you had a really wide
graph you'd end up getting it faster out
of that swap because you you can you can
get data from multiple peers at one time
and it naturally kind of balances if you
look at how BitTorrent operates really
efficiently was really high demand
torrents it looks a lot like bit swap
but when you have a linear chain like we
have in a blockchain graph sake is like
orders of magnitude faster like you know
based on the grip the depth of the graph
you're basically it's saving all of
those round trips so just put some links
in order to reverse yeah whenever you
have some kind of incursion case like
and frankly like even if you didn't have
a recursion case but there was only one
peer with your data you'd probably get
more performance out of grabs linked to
because you you just you have less back
and forth even with the 1peter it's
really just like not all that
well-suited for having many peers with
the data that you're pulling from at the
same time because you would have to do
that kind of balancing and parallelism
like yourself and your own logic and
then you know figure out what appears to
send it to so ok and then in terms of
just who's a good resources team or
another team to talk about crafting or
should I go to learn more about this
depends on which part so there's a if
you want to know about like kind of a
selector part of it that's Eric and Tim
and the protocol part is probably Hannah
and Steven yeah cuz the actual kind of
wire protocol was written by Hannah and
designed by Steven we just left him okay
and there's no JavaScript version of any
of this yet no but like in not too long
Tim will write the selector and in part
and then it's just a matter of the
protocol work and I
I'd not looked at that in depth enough
to know how much work that is
and it's currently the case that the
wire format for crafting also uses part
of us and I think we everybody involved
agrees that we would like to move away
from that yesterday but it needs to be
done so I mean does it actually used AG
P beer doesn't just leave proto buffers
no he's proud of us totally yeah so I
mean yeah that is adding quite a bit
like I mean if you're using the default
block API then you're including de PB
anyway okay so you're gonna have like
the from a buff librarian so it's not
really going to increase the bundle size
and JavaScript supports gonna call but
and we don't have to deal with the dag
PB codec stuff we can like just use a
quota buff library that that's
reasonable I guess yeah it does kind of
suck that's gonna be a little painful we
should probably just consider writing in
Seaborn because I think everybody pretty
much wants to do that anyway it might
actually be easier to I think we said
that we said that when they were
designing it we said like please use dag
see more yes yes but I think like the
early a lot of the early specs were done
with protobuf schemas and so I think
that there was some mystery of I've
heard anybody defend proto buffers in
like a year so so I would like to come
back a couple of questions ago and dear
keep an odd or for anyone else listening
who might not have heard of these
keywords before so you asked about how
to handle large pieces of binary data
Chris and Michael talked a little bit
about his flexible bytes list for that
yeah flexible byte list I think it was
cool layout Oh
so that is a specific instance
a more general category of solution that
we call advanced labs for best data
layouts or ADL's for short I don't know
if you've stumbled across that term yet
but that's that that's the name for this
whole set of things where it mostly is
for addressing splitting data across
multiple blocks but the other unifying
trait here is we understand tacitly that
some amount of code is needed to make
sense of the reading in the writing and
so so usually this is to do with
splitting stuff up into multiple blocks
but it could for example also be used
for doing encryption there's one
hypothetical in this case we have no
proofs of that yet but it's something
that has been discussed as a cool idea
at least no crus of it that I know of
maybe it's that they're I don't know and
so so that's the general feature you
could write your own custom code to do
your own custom charting that could fit
into that general concept of ADL's and
the thing that has made this flexible by
listing is just one of those which we've
Specht out or susima that sounds like
topologically what it is and and then
you just need a little bit of code on
top in order to read or write it and so
we are hoping that that is gonna be as
you were also thinking a pretty reusable
thing and we'll probably try to drop it
into the middle of unix FSB too and also
hopefully works great for your
standalone byte needs that have enough
we'll be doing five systems yeah I think
like the good differentiator here is
like everything in the data model works
with just any kind of IP library like
you can serialize and deserialize and
read bytes and do everything once you
hit these more advanced use cases like I
have a ton of binary that you split over
a tree you're now in the land of like
okay well you need I feel the plus some
other code and like that's basically
what we've been referring to is in
advanced layout where there there is
something outside of just our
off-the-shelf I feel the library if
you're gonna be able to do it
we we are still course figuring out how
to best standardize all that stuff but
we're getting to the point where at
least we we're standardizing the schemas
for them and then linking to several
implementations that you can go pull
down however
all right we are ready half-hour mark so
I guess that's it for today so yeah then
goodbye everyone and see you all next
week bye